---
title: Handling Commands
description: Recommendations and Requirements when Handling a Command
keywords: 
author: einari, smithmx
---

# Command Handler

## Background

A *Command Handler* handles commands.  The command handler is responsible for executing the appropriate methods on Aggregate Roots and Domain Services to fulfill the intent of the *Command*.

## Requirements

A *Command Handler* must implement the *IHandleCommands* interface.  This is a simple marker interface with no methods to implement.

To handle a *Command*, you simply create a method called *Handle* with a single parameter of the *Command* you wish to handle.  A *Command Handler* does not return anything.  It is not permitted to return a value from a *Command*.  When a *Command* is executed, you will receive a *CommandResult*
which will indicate whether the *Command* succeeded and, in the case of failure, why the *Command* failed.  No artifacts that were created or updated as a result of the *Command* will be present on the *CommandResult*.

```csharp
public void Handle(AddRecommendationToCart cmd)
```

There **MUST** be a single handler for a Command.  Bifrost will throw an exception if there is no handler for a command or if there is more than one handler for a command.  There can only be a single handler for a command as there must be a clear and unambiguous
indication of the result of the execution of the command.  Multiple command handlers for a single command would require co-ordination of multiple results with associated rollback of successful handlers after unsuccessful ones.  Where you wish multiple things
to happen on receipt of a Command, you must implement and handle this yourself in your *Command Handler*.

## Responsibilities

The sole responsibility of the *Command Handler* is to execute the *Command*.

A *Command Handler* should not implement any validation, security checks, or such like.  These should be handled earlier in the command pipeline.  When we invoke a *Command Handler*, it is with the expectation that the action will succeed.  We should have validated the command,
should checked business rule conditions, should checked the permissions and therefore the command should succeed.  It is for this reason that within a *Command Handler*, the only way to indicate that the *Command* did not succeed is via an Exception.  This is because, due to our previous checks,
it is truly an exceptional condition for the *Command* to fail.

## Design

It is recommended that a *CommandHandler* should invoke a single method on *Aggregate Root*.  This is an indication that you have correctly modelled your *Aggregate Root*, *Command* and business transaction.  It is sometimes useful to think of a *Command* as a serialized call on a method on an *Aggregate Root*.

As nothing can be returned from a *Command Handler*, it is recommended against relying on database generated identities or keys. You will not be able to receive the Id generated by the database.  It is recommended to use non-meaningful keys such as Guids on a *Command* which can be provided by the invoker of the *Command* and *Command Handler*.   Where a database generated key is required, it is recommended to include another candidate key that can be provided by the caller.
